#Basic Concepts:

Electricity, broadly encompasses the range of physical phenomena related to the physical property of electric charge.
Electric charge is a physical property of matter involved in electro-magnetic interactions.
Electric charge comes in two flavors: positive and negative.
Opposite charges experience attractive forces.
Like charges experience repulsive forces.
Electric charges generate force fields, or fields of influence.
These force fields diminish in influence with increased distance.
Electric potential describes the strengths of these fields and the forces experienced by charges within them with respect to energy.
Voltage is the measure of electric potential difference. It's also called electro motive force (emf).
An electric field produces an emf, causing electric charges to move, material permitting.
Emfs can also be produced through various chemical reactions and changing magnetic fields.
Power supplies provide emfs in electronics.

##Basic Mechanics:

EMF gives electric charges a reason to move.
Materials that allow the movement of charges are called conductors.
The movement of charge is called current.
Current can be used to do work and perform tasks.
In electronics, we construct circuits to direct the flow of current.
Generally speaking, circuits are pathways for electricity to flow. Electronics is an art of directing the flow of electricity.

##Basic Materials:

Conductors (i.e. metals) permit the flow of electricity
*Have the properties of resistance and inductance.
Insulators (i.e. paper) do not conduct electricity
*Have very high resistance and can be made to conduct with enough voltage. 
Semi-conductive - permits current flow under certain conditions, acts as an insulator in others.

Basic Poperties:

Voltage (Electro Motive Force) - causes charges to move
*Unit: Volt
*Symbol: V or E

Current - the movement of charge
*Unit: Ampere (amp for short)
*Symbol: I

Resistance - the ability to resist current flow
*Unit: Ohm
*Symbol: Ω
  
Capacitance - the ability to store charge
*Unit: Farad
*Symbol: F

Inductance - deals with magnetic fields produced by current flowing through a conductor
*Unit: Henry
*Symbol: H
  
Voltage, Resistance and Current relate to one another via the Ohm's Law:
V = IR
I = V/R
R = V/I
  
##Basic Circuits:

Circuits are often thought of as loops, but sometimes you're not always dealing with "circular" pathways.
It can be helpful to think of them as paths as well.
These paths determine the movement of charge through various components.
The beginning and end of a path is determined by its context.
In simplest terms, the path of a circuit connects some load to a power supply.

The simplest circuit is a conductive path from the positive terminal of your power supply to the negative.

These are really context sensitive when things get complicated but...
Open: Incomplete path
Closed: Complete path
Short: A path that bypasses current around components

##Basic Components:

Resistors exist on the spectrum between conductors and insulators.
These components restrict the amount of current flowing through them.
Can be used a current to voltage converters.

Capacitors store charge and allow for voltage to be controlled as a function of time.

Diodes are a semi conductor that allow for the flow of electricity in one direction.
  Some variations:
    Emit light
    Conduct when exposed to light
    Reverse conduct at specific voltages (used in voltage references)

Transistors are a large family of semiconductors designed to amplify signals.
  Their variations are generally descriptive of their construction:
    Bi-polar Junction BJT - NPN, PNP
    JFET - N and P
    MOSFET - N and P



